
1 Nyquist Server 
Installation 
1
Nyquist Server Installation Options
Two options are available for installing and deploying Nyquist E7000:
1 Using a Nyquist System Controller (NQ-SYSCTRL), which already 
has the operating system and E7000 application software installed 
on it.
2 Using your own server platform and installing the Debian OS and 
E7000 application software. While Option 1 is the quickest and 
easiest approach, Option 2 may be better suited for situations 
where high-availability server features like Redundant Array of 
Independent Disks (RAID) or hot-swappable power supplies are 
desired.
This manual describes the installation steps for Option 2.
Before installing Nyquist, ensure that:
• Required services are enabled on your network. An example of a 
required service includes TFTP.
• Required multicast IP addresses and ports are known and avail-
able.
• Required IP addresses are known and available.
• Required port numbers are open.
Ensure your server meets system requirements before beginning the 
Debian OS installation.
Note: This manual provides the Nyquist E7000 installation process 
when using your own server. If you are using the Nyquist System 
Controller (NQ-SYSCTRL), refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Con-
troller Setup Guide.
=====
2
If you are updating an existing Nyquist system, read "Best Practices” 
on page 49 and then refer to the update procedure in the Nyquist 
E7000 System Administrator Manual.
1.1
Understanding System Requirements
The E7000 web-based UI requires a secure Hypertext Transfer Proto-
col Secure (https) type network connection to the E7000 system 
server. Users can log in to the E7000 system using the Google 
Chrome web browser from a computer or tablet running either a 
Windows 8.1 (or later) or a Mac OS X 10.12.x (or later) operating 
system (OS). The UI can also be accessed via a Chrome browser 
enabled Android-based tablet or mobile device. To access the server, 
type your server’s IP address (for example, 10.10.20.12).
1.1.1
Whitelisted Web Addresses
E7000 requires access to specific Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), 
commonly referred to as web addresses. Access to many of these 
web addresses is required during installation; access to other web 
addresses, such as the address for the Network Time Server (NTS) are 
required during runtime. The Information Technology (IT) depart-
ment for the site must whitelist the web addresses so that they can 
be easily accessed as needed.
The following table lists the URLs that must be whitelisted.
Table 1-1, Whitelisted Web Sites
URL
Description
http://hostedactivation.com (specifically, 
http://hostedactivation.com/bogen)
Required for E7000 License support
http://downloads.digium.com
Required for downloads from Digium 
Phone Module for Asterisk (DPMA)
http://downloads.asterisk.org/ (specifically, 
http://downloads.asterisk.org/pub/
telephony/sounds/releases)
Required for sounds download
http://www.pjsip.org/
Required for PJSIP download
http://ftp.us.debian.org (specifically: http://
ftp.us.debian.org/debian/)
Required during Linux package installation
http://security.debian.org (specifically: 
http://security.debian.org/)
Required during Linux package installation
=====
3
URLs that are entered on the E7000 System Parameters page are 
used during runtime and include the URLs for the NTS, the Session 
Traversal Utilities for (Network Address Translation (NAT) (STUN) 
server, and the Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) server.
The default URLs for the STUN and TURN servers are not set. The 
default URL for NTS is pool.ntp.org.
1.1.2
E7000 System Server Requirements
The following are the minimum requirements for the E7000 system 
server if you elect to not use the Nyquist System Controller (NQ-
SYSCTRL):
stun01.sipphone.com
Required for STUN based IP address 
resolution (This is used by the E7000 Web 
UI and should be enabled on the computer 
that runs the web UI.)
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/
Serves unprocessed versions of files stored 
in the GitHub repositories.
http://2431612419.airable.io
https://2431612419.airable.io
airable URL
http://api.sound-machine.com
https://api.sound-machine.com
SoundMachine URL
http://api.bogenedu.com/api/customers
Required for E7000 Warranty Support
Table 1-1, Whitelisted Web Sites (Continued)
URL
Description
Table 1-2,  E7000 System Server Minimum Requirements
OS
Debian Linux OS (AMD 64-bit version) release 8.9.0
Note: Refer to the most up to date release notes on the 
www.bogenedu.com web site for details about which Linux 
OS versions have been tested for use with the E7000 sys-
tem. 
CPU
Quad-core Intel-based processor running at 3.0 GHz or 
higher
Hardware
Sound card with microphone port
Memory
8 GB RAM (Error Correcting Code (ECC)) RAM is recom-
mended for increase performance and reliability.)
=====
4
1.1.3
Network Application Services
Required  application services will be installed automatically on the 
E7000 system server as part of the E7000 installation. All other net-
work services must be already present or installed manually on the 
Disk Storage
One 250 GB disk drive
Some form of hardware-based Redundant Array of Inde-
pendent Disks (RAID) is recommended for redundancy and 
high availability.
Consider using a larger drive if large amounts of audio (for 
example, voice mail, announcements, recordings, and 
music) are being stored on the system. Note that music, 
tones, and announcements created or stored as .wav files 
will be larger than if created or stored as MP3 files. Other 
factors that should be considered are:
• How often will backups be performed?
• Will the system be backed up locally or remotely on a 
detachable drive, Storage Area Network (SAN)/Network 
Attached Storage (NAS), or Network File System (NFS)?
• How many users will have voicemail ability?
• How long will voicemail messages be stored?
• Will voicemail messages be part of the local system 
backups?
NIC
10/100/1000 MB Ethernet port (NIC is an acronym for 
Network Interface Card)
PCI Expansion Slots
One or more Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI)/PCI 
Express (PCIe) slot if telephony network connectivity other 
than, or in addition to, SIP trunking is required; contact 
your Bogen Dealer for assistance in determining these tele-
phony hardware needs.
Telephony Interfaces
One or more PCI/PCIe type third-party telephony interface 
cards (for example, Foreign Exchange Office (FXO), Foreigh 
Exchange Subscriber (FXS), etc.) if telephony network con-
nectivity other than, or in addition to, SIP trunking is 
required; contact your Bogen Dealer for assistance in deter-
mining these telephony hardware needs.
Table 1-2,  E7000 System Server Minimum Requirements (Continued)
=====
5
associated network. The following table lists the services and their 
locations:
Table 1-3,  Network Application Services
Service
Description
Required
Location
Apache
Used as the web server to drive the 
E7000 web interface.
Mandatory
E7000
DHCP
Supplies dynamic IP addresses to the 
E7000 system server and associated 
devices. (DHCP is the acronym for 
Dynamic Host Configuration 
Protocol.) It also supplies the Trivial 
File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server IP 
address or host name to devices on 
the network via option_66.
Optional
Network
DNS
Resolves host names to IP addresses. 
DNS is an acronym for Domain 
Name System, a hierarchical naming 
system for computers, servers, or 
other resources connected to either 
the Internet or to a private network. 
Optional
Network
ICE
STUN
TURN
Resolves IP addresses behind 
Network Address Translation (NAT)/
firewall.
- Interactive Connectivity 
Establishment
- Session Traversal Utilities for NAT
- Traversal Using Relays around NAT
Optional
E7000
Network
NTP
Provides date/time synchronization 
for the E7000 system server and the 
associated devices (IP Phones, 
appliances). (NTP is an acronym for 
Network Time Protocol.)
Mandatory
Network
=====
6
SNMP
Provides the E7000 Linux server 
statistics via Simple Network 
Management Protocol (SNMP) v1 
through Port 161.
Optional
E7000
TFTP
TFTP is used by IP phone and E7000 
device provisioning. A TFTP server 
runs on the E7000 system server on 
port 69 (the standard TFTP port #).
Device provisioning files are stored 
on the E7000 system server in 
directory: /srv/tftp.
This is the only directory exposed by 
the TFTP server.
Mandatory
E7000
Table 1-3,  Network Application Services (Continued)
Service
Description
Required
Location
=====
2 Installing Debian 8.xx.x 
AMD 64
7
Installing Debian 8.xx.x AMD 64
Before beginning the install process, make sure that your Nyquist 
E7000 system server can access the URLs, or web sites (see 
"Whitelisted Web Addresses” on page 2, from a Chrome browser).
You must install the Debian OS on the Nyquist E7000 system server 
before you can install the Nyquist E7000 application software. The 
Debian OS can be installed by either using a graphical user interface 
(GUI) or a command line interface (CLI).
2.1
Installation Using the CLI
To install Debian 8.xx.x AMD 64 bit using the CLI:
Step 1
Insert a bootable media into the computer. The boot-
able media can be a DVD, a CD, or a flash drive.

8
The inital Debian install screen appears.
Step 2
From the Debian GNU/Linux Installer Boot Menu, select 
Install and then press Enter.
You will be prompted to select localization options that 
will be used for both the installation and for the 
installed system. These localization options include lan-
guage and location.The default language is English.
Step 3
Select a language and then press Enter.

9
Step 4
Select your location and then press Enter.
This selection is used to set your time zone.
You are next prompted to select a keyboard configura-
tion. Keyboards are often tailored to the characters 
used in a language.

10
Step 5
Select the keyboard that you want to use and then 
press Enter.
Step 6
When prompted for the hostname, type debian, select 
Continue, and press Enter.

11
Step 7
Type the domain name or leave this field blank if you 
are using an IP address. Then, select Continue and 
press Enter.
Step 8
Enter the password for the root, or system administra-
tive account. Note that this password should contain a 
mixture of letters, numbers, and special characters and 
that you should record this password as you will need 
it when installing Nyquist.
Step 9
When prompted, re-enter the password and press 
Continue.
Step 10
Type the full name of a user who will perform nonad-
ministrative activities on the server. Then, select Con-
tinue.

12
Step 11
Type a user name for the new account and select Con-
tinue.
Step 12
When prompted, enter a password for this user and 
select Continue.
Step 13
When prompted, re-enter the password and select 
Continue.
Step 14
Select your time zone and then press Enter.
Step 15
Select Guided - use entire disk and press Enter to 
begin partitioning the disk.
Note: While you can select a different partitioning scheme or select 
to manually partition the disk, the next few steps use the Guide - 
use entire disk option. You can later review and customize the 
results.

13
 
Step 16
Select the disk that you want to partition and press 
Enter.
Step 17
Select the partitioning scheme that you want to use. If 
you are uncertain as to which scheme would be best, 
select All files in one partition (recommended for 
new users).
Step 18
Press Enter.
Note: All data on the selected disk will be erased.

14
Step 19
When prompted, select Finish partition and write 
changes to disk and then press Enter.
Step 20
Select Yes to write changes to the disks and then press 
Enter.

15
Step 21
When prompted, select an archive mirror country and 
then press Enter.
Step 22
Select a Debian archive mirror and then press Enter.
Step 23
When prompted to configure the package manager, 
leave the proxy field blank and press Enter.

16
Step 24
When prompted to participate in the survey, select 
either Yes or No and press Enter.
Step 25
Select the software that you want to install. As a mini-
mum, select GNOME, Web Server, SSH Server, and 
Standard System Utilities.
Step 26
Select Continue and press Enter.
Step 27
When prompted to install the GRUB boot loader on a 
hard disk, select Yes and then press Enter.
The boot loader allows your server to launch the 
Debian OS when powered on.

17
Step 28
When prompted to select the hard disk where the 
bootable software is to reside, Enter device manually 
and then press Enter.
Step 29
When prompted that the installation is complete, make 
sure to remove the installation media, select Continue, 
and press Enter.
The server boots into the new system and displays the 
GUI. You can now install the Nyquist software applica-
tion.
=====
18
2.2
Installation Using the GUI
To install Debian 8.xx.x AMD 64 bit using the GUI:
Step 1
Insert a bootable media into the computer. The boot-
able media can be a DVD, a CD, or a flash drive.
The inital Debian install screen appears.
Step 2
From the Debian GNU/Linux Installer Boot Menu, select 
Graphical Install and then press Enter.
You will be prompted to select localization options that 
will be used for both the installation and for the 
installed system. These localization options include lan-
guage and location. The default language is English.

19
Step 3
Select a language and then select Continue.
Step 4
Select your location and then select Continue.
This selection is used to set your time zone.
You are next prompted to select a keyboard configura-

20
tion. Keyboards are often tailored to the characters 
used in a language.
Step 5
Select the keyboard that you want to use and then 
select Continue.
Step 6
When prompted for the hostname, type debian and 
then select Continue.

21
Step 7
Type the domain name or leave this field blank if you 
are using an IP address. Then, select Continue.

22
Step 8
Type the password for the root system administrator 
account. Then, retype the password to verify that it was 
typed correctly and select Continue.
Step 9
Type the full name of a user who will perform non-
administrative activities on the server. Then, select Con-
tinue.
Step 10
Type a password for this user. Then, retype the pass-
word to verify that it was entered correctly and select 
Continue.

23
Step 11
Select your time zone and then select Continue.
Step 12
Select Guided - use entire disk and select Continue to 
begin partitioning the disk.
Note: While you can select a different partitioning scheme or select 
to manually partition the disk, the next few steps use the Guide - 
use entire disk option. You can later review and customize the 
results.

24
Step 13
Select the disk that you want to partition and select 
Continue.
Step 14
Select the partitioning scheme that you want to use. If 
you are uncertain as to which scheme would be best, 
select All files in one partition (recommended for 
new users).

25
Step 15
Select Continue.
Step 16
When prompted, select Finish partition and write 
changes to disk and then select Continue.
Step 17
Select Yes to write changes to the disks and then select 
Continue.

26
Step 18
When prompted, select an archive mirror country and 
then select Continue.
Step 19
Select a Debian archive mirror and then select Con-
tinue.

27
Step 20
When prompted to configure the package manager, 
leave the proxy field blank and select Continue.
Step 21
When prompted to participate in the survey, select 
either Yes or No and select Continue.

28
Step 22
Select the software that you want to install. As a mini-
mum, select GNOME, Web Server, SSH Server, and 
Standard System Utilities.
Step 23
Select Continue.
Step 24
When prompted to install the GRUB boot loader on a 
hard disk, select Yes and then select Continue.
The boot loader allows your server to launch the 
Debian OS when powered on.

29
Step 25
When prompted, select the hard disk where the boot-
able software is to reside and then select Continue.
Step 26
When prompted that the installation is complete, make 
sure to remove the installation media, select Continue, 
and press Enter.
The server boots into the new system and displays the 
GUI. You can now install the Nyquist software applica-
tion.


=====
3 Installing the Nyquist 
E7000 System 
31
Installing the Nyquist E7000 
System Server
The Nyquist system server install involves the following tasks:
• Setting up a static IP address for the Nyquist E7000 server
• Copying and extracting the nyquist-e7000-xx.xx.xx.xxxx.tar.gz file
• Installing the Nyquist E7000 application software
Before installing Nyquist E7000, you must install the Debian OS (see 
"Installing Debian 8.xx.x AMD 64” on page 7). 
3.1
Setting Up Static IP Address
Before setting up a static IP address, determine the vacant IP address 
that you want to implement in your environment. Then, back up the 
interface file and edit the original interface file to include this IP 
address.

32
To set up a static IP address:
Step 1
Log into the Linux desktop.
Step 2
From the menu on the top right of the screen, select 
the Settings/Tool icon.

33
Step 3
Select Users.
Step 4
Select Unlock.

34
Step 5
Type the root password and then select Authenticate.
Step 6
Select Account Type and select Administrator. Then, 
select Lock and select the Back icon.

35
Step 7
From the All Settings screen, select Network.
Step 8
Select the Settings icon, which is shaped like a gear, on 
the lower right of the screen.

36
Step 9
Enter the IPv4 address settings and then click Apply. 
Next toggle the ON/OFF button to OFF and then to ON 
to apply the network settings.
Step 10
Go to Activities, launch the Firefox browser, and verify 
Internet access.
=====
3.2
Copying and Extracting the .tar File
The <nyquist-e7000-xx.xx.xx.xxxx.tar.gz> file is a compressed archive 
file that must be copied to the server and then extracted. For this file, 
xx.xx.xx must be replaced by the Nyquist version number. This version 
number can be obtained by typing the following at the shell prompt: 
ls nyquist-*
To copy and extract the <nyquist-e7000-xx.xx.xx.xxxx.tar.gz> file:
Step 1
Copy the Nyquist installer tar file to a USB drive and 
plug the drive into a USB port on the Linux server.
Note: The Nyquist server must have access to the Internet in order 
to complete this procedure.

37
The server displays a dialog box when the USB drive is 
plugged in.
Step 2
Select Open with Files..
Step 3
Right-click File and select Copy To.
.
Step 4
Select Computer in the left column, click the tmp 
folder, and then click the Select button in the upper 
right hand corner.

38
Step 5
Click the Terminal icon to start a Command Line Inter-
face, or CLI, session.
Step 6
Type su at the command prompt, press Enter, and then 
type the root password.
Step 7
To extract the tar file, type cd /tmp to change the 
directory to the tmp file and then type the tar 
extraction command:
tar xPvf nyquist-<nyquist version>.tar.gz
You can also type part of the file name and then press 
the Tab key. The rest of the file name will fill in.
The file will begin extracting.
=====
39
3.3
Installing the Nyquist Software
After copying and extracting the nyquist-e7000-xx.xx.xx.xxxx.tar.gz 
file, you can install the Nyquist application software. This installation 
process takes about 1 hour and 45 minutes.
To install Nyquist:
Step 1
Type the following command at the root@debian com-
mand prompt:
/# /opt/bogen/install_nyquist
Step 2
Press Enter.

40
Step 3
Enter your License Activation Key and press Enter to 
start the package installation.
Step 4
When prompted, enter your country code. For the 
United States, type 01 and press Enter.
Step 5
Press Enter to read the End User License Agreement 
(EULA).
Step 6
Press the Space bar to continue reading the EULA.

41
Step 7
Type yes to accept the EULA.
Step 8
When prompted to select option (C)reate (E)nter, 
(I)mport or (S)kip, type c, and then press Enter.
Step 9
When prompted to select option (I)P Address or 
(D)omain name, type i.
Step 10
Type the server’s IP address, and then press Enter.
=====
42
Note that if the Nyquist application software has been previously 
installed, the following prompt appears:
It looks like you already have a Nyquist system installed: 2.0.0.528
Please choose from one of the following options to proceed:
-------
Install - Use this option to fresh-install release: 2.0.0:528
-------
 * Nyquist software will be fresh-installed, user data deleted.
 * All Configuration data will be deleted.
 * Uploaded tones/alarms/announcements will be deleted.
 * Uploaded songs and playlists will be deleted.
 * Recordings will be deleted.
 * Voicemail recordings will be deleted.
 * Call Detail Records (CDRs) will be deleted.
 * System Backups will be preserved and available after installation.
------
Update  - Use this option to re-install the software to release: 2.0.0:528
------
 * Nyquist software will be re-installed, while preserving user data.
 * All Configuration data will be preserved.
 * Uploaded tones/alarms/announcements will be preserved.
 * Uploaded songs and playlists will be preserved.
 * Recordings will be preserved.
 * Voicemail recordings will be preserved.
 * Call Detail Records (CDRs) will be preserved.
 * System Backups will be preserved and available after installation.
Please enter your choice (Enter: Install or Update)?
If you enter Update, the new Nyquist version updates your existing 
system and keeps all of your already configured data (for example, 
schedules or station). If you enter Install, the new Nyquist version 
overwrites your existing version and all of your current configuration 
data is deleted.
=====
4 Launching Wizards 
Following a Server 
43
Launching Wizards Following a 
Server Install
The first time you try to log on to your Nyquist E7000 system, you will 
get the notice that your connection is not private. Click Advanced.
When you first access Nyquist on a server (other than the 
NQ-SYSCTRL, the Customer Information Wizard appears. Enter your 
contact information and then select Continue.
Note: Selecting Advanced will prompt you to select the hyperlink 
to proceed to the URL.
=====
44
  
Enter your contact information and then select Continue.
The Dialing Length Wizard appears next. If you already know how to 
configure an E7000 system, you can select Expert Setup, which takes 
you to the E7000 system’s Login page. The Station, User, Time Zone, 
and Network Time Server Wizard views also have an Expert Setup 
button. The Expert Setup button marks all the wizard-based setup 
database entries as “visited” so you are not redirected back to any of 
the wizards.
If you log in after having selected to use the Expert Setup, you must 
manually complete system configuration using the Admin Web UI 
(see the Nyquist E7000 System Administrator Manual).
If you don’t opt to use the Expert Setup, you can continue using the 
setup wizards.
Figure 4-1, Customer Information Wizard
Note: If you select Expert Setup and have not set a new password, 
you will need to enter the default username admin and the default 
password bogen to log into the system. Login credentials are case 
sensitive.
=====
45
Set the dialing length (number of digits) used by stations in your 
system and the select Continue.
Create the Admin Web UI station by entering the Extension and 
Name for this station. Then, select Continue
Update the password for the Admin Web user.
Select Continue.
=====
46
Set the time zone to be used by your system and then select Con-
tinue.
Specify the Network Time Server and then select Continue.
The Zone Wizard appears next. The number of zones that you can 
create depends upon your product license. However, regardless of 
what size system license purchased, the Zone Wizard will only assist 
in creating a maximum of 20 zones. (Additional zones, if desired and 
licensed, can be added via the Admin Web UI after the initial setup is
=====
47
complete.) If you have purchased up to 20 zones, the system will 
automatically generate the zones. 
You can delete an automatically generated zone by selecting the red 
X next to the zone you want to delete.
You can also make edits to a zone by selecting a hyperlink in any of a 
zone’s parameters except for the number: 
For some parameters (Type and Pre-Announce Tone), you can select 
from the drop-down menu that appears; for others, type the change 
and select the check box when done.
After all zones have been created, select Save. Or, you can select Skip 
Wizard and create your zones later through the Admin Web UI.
Once you complete all of the setup wizards, you can select Continue 
and the Nyquist C4000 logon screen appears.
Name
Identifies the zone by the user-created name. The name can 
be alphanumeric (such as Bldg 1) and contain up to 255 
characters.
Type
Identifies the zone as being able to receive paging, time, 
audio, or a combination of paging, time, or audio. 
Volume
Sets the volume level for announcements. The volume level 
can range from 0 to 10.
Audio Distribution 
Volume
Sets the volume level for audio distribution playing to sta-
tions in the zone. (See "Using Audio Distribution” on 
page 270.)
Pre-Announce Tone
Identifies what, if any, tone should play before an 
announcement.
Multicast IP Address
Identifies the IP address for multicast calls to the zone.
Multicast Port Number
Identifies the port number for multicast calls to the zone.
=====
48
The first time you try to log on to your Nyquist E7000 system, you will 
get the notice that your connection is not private. Click Advanced.
Note: Selecting Advanced will prompt you to select the hyperlink 
to proceed to the URL.
=====
5 Best Practices
49
Best Practices
This section details recommendations and best practices to use when:
• Updating the Nyquist E7000 system server software to a new soft-
ware release
• Re-installing a previous Nyquist software release
• Re-installing the same Nyquist software release
• Updating Nyquist appliance firmware (computer software stored 
on the appliance)
• Using System Backups
5.1
Updating Nyquist Software
New Nyquist server software may include patches to address known 
issues or new releases that provide additional features. The latest 
E7000 server software can be accessed from the secured ES Dealers 
website: 
Note: Before configuring or using any Nyquist appliances, you 
must ensure that the appliance firmware is updated to the latest 
release. The latest firmware release can be obtained from the 
secured ES Dealers website: http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-
secure-dealer-resources/
Note: Before beginning the install process, make sure that your 
Nyquist system server can access the required URLs or web sites 
(see "Whitelisted Web Addresses” on page 2 from a Chrome 
browser.
=====
50
http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-secure-dealer-resources/
When updating to a new Nyquist server software release, use the 
Admin Web UI to perform a system update unless directed by techni-
cal support. Performing a system update ensures that all configura-
tion data, call detail records, recordings, voice mail, and all upload 
announcements, alarms, tones, and songs are retained and are avail-
able after the system software update.
To perform a system update:
Step 1
From the navigation bar, select System Parameters.
Step 2
From the System Parameters page, select System 
Update, locate the System Update file, and then select 
Import.
Perform the server system update process before updating Nyquist 
appliance software.
5.1.1
Assigning Permissions for New Features
After a new software release is installed, permissions for features 
introduced by this new release must be set for the roles that will use 
these features. 
To assign permissions for these new features:
Step 1
On the navigation bar, select Roles.
Step 2
On the Roles page, select the Permissions icon next to 
the role that you want to edit permissions for.
Step 3
On the Edit Permissions page, make desired changes.
Step 4
Select Save.
For more information, refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Administra-
tor Manual.
Note: System backups created by older versions of the server soft-
ware are not compatible with the newer releases and should not be 
used to restore configuration data.
=====
51
5.2
Re-installing an Earlier Software Release
If you want to re-install an earlier software release, you should first do 
a fresh install of the Debian software. Then, install Nyquist using the 
install_nyquist command (see "Installing the Nyquist Software” on 
page 39).
After the installation completes, you can restore user configuration 
data from a system backup provided the system backup was created 
from the same release that is now installed.
Nyquist appliance software may also need to be re-installed to a pre-
vious release to maintain compatibility with the E7000 system server.
5.3
Re-installing the Same Software Release
If you need to re-install the same software release, you should first 
perform a system backup. (Refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Admin-
istrator Manual.)
Next, install Nyquist using the install_nyquist command (see "Install-
ing the Nyquist Software” on page 39).
After completing the software installation, restore user configuration 
data from the system backup. 
Note: Before beginning the install process, make sure that your 
Nyquist system server can access the required URLs or web sites 
(see "Whitelisted Web Addresses” on page 2 from a Chrome 
browser.
Note: Before beginning the install process, make sure that your 
Nyquist system server can access the required URLs or web sites 
(see "Whitelisted Web Addresses” on page 2 from a Chrome 
browser.
Note: When using a system backup to restore configuration data, 
the system backup to be used should have been created by the 
same Nyquist server software release that is currently running.
=====
52
System backups with descriptions that contain "OLD:" and "(for older 
release!)" should not be used to restore configuration data to the 
currently running software release. System backups are automatically 
marked as OLD when a System Update is performed to update the 
Nyquist server software to a new release.
You can use Recordings and Voicemail backups to restore record-
ings and voicemail on any Nyquist software release. These type of 
backups are not dependent on any specific release version (unless 
otherwise stated by Bogen on specific software releases).
5.4
Updating Appliance Firmware
The firmware for all devices used with the E7000 system must be 
compatible with the software installed on the E7000 server, and all 
Nyquist appliances in a given installation should be configured to run 
the same version firmware.
Nyquist application firmware releases can be accessed from the 
secured ES Dealers website: 
http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-secure-dealer-resources/
Firmware can be updated for E7000 stations and Analog Station 
Bridge (ASB) devices through the Admin Web UI or through the 
appliance’s web UI. For information about the appliance’s web UI, 
refer to the device’s configuration manual.
Through the E7000 Admin Web UI, you can upload a firmware file to 
the E7000 system server, download firmware to a station or ASB, view 
a list of stations and ASBs that are linked to a firmware name, set 
default firmware for any stations and bridge devices to be added, and 
delete firmware entries. For information about using the Admin Web 
UI, refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Administrator Manual.
Note: Before configuring or using any Nyquist appliances, you 
must ensure that the appliance firmware is updated to the latest 
release. The latest firmware release can be obtained from the 
secured ES Dealers website: http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-
secure-dealer-resources/