Publication Number 740-00067B
1900402
NQ-SYSCTRL 
System Controller 
Installation and Use
The System Controller provides a cost-effective way 
to deploy Nyquist based solutions using a state-of-
the-art processing platform pre-installed with the 
Nyquist application server software. The System 
Controller offers high-performance operation for 
even the largest Nyquist system configurations and 
can simultaneously distribute an unlimited number 
of audio streams anywhere across the network, 
making it perfect for background music applications.
The System Controller can manage applications 
that require any mix of multi-zone paging, intercom
calling, or background music distribution at 
businesses, restaurants, retail stores, industrial 
facilities, and many other venues.  It has a web-
based graphical user interface (GUI) that is 
accessible from almost any personal computer (PC), 
tablet, or mobile device. 

The System Controller is designed to run on a 
10/100 Ethernet network.

=====

NQ-SYSCTRL System Controller Installation 
The System Controller can be shelf, wall, or rack 
mounted.
1.	 Either place the System Controller appliance on 
a shelf, or use the supplied mounting ears to 
mount it on a wall. For rack mounting, use one 
of the available optional rack mount kits (NQ-
RMK02, NQ-RMK03 or NQ-RMK04) as applicable.
2.	 Connect the device to the 10/100 network using 
a CAT5 type cable. 

3.	 Connect the power cord to the back of the unit. 

4.	 If connecting auxiliary devices, such as a keyboard, mouse, or video monitor, connect the 
devices’ cables to the appropriate connectors on 
the back of the device.

If connecting a video monitor, make sure to use 
the HDMI video output as the Digital Video Interface (DVI) output is not supported.  Use of the 
RS232 ports is  also not supported.
5.	 Toggle the Power switch to the On position.
Once the System Controller is powered on and connected to the network, it can be accessed and 
configured via the device’s web-based GUI.  There 
are two IP addresses available to access the web-
based GUI: 1) a default static IP (192.168.1.10) on 
Ethernet Port A and 2) Dynamic Host Configuration 
Protocol (DHCP) on Ethernet Port B. 

NOTE:  You must have a valid software 
license activation key to set up and configure 

Viewing and 
Understanding the POWER LED of the NQ-SYSCTRL System Controller
An LED labeled POWER appears on the front of the 
System Controller. This LED appears solid green 
when the device is powered on.
Using the Reset Button
The Reset button reboots the System 
Controller and launches the logon 
screen.
