
1 Nyquist Server 
Installation 
1
Nyquist Server Installation Options
Two options are available for installing and deploying Nyquist E7000:
1 Using a Nyquist System Controller (NQ-SYSCTRL), which already 
has the operating system and E7000 application software installed 
on it.
2 Using your own server platform and installing the Debian OS and 
E7000 application software. While Option 1 is the quickest and 
easiest approach, Option 2 may be better suited for situations 
where high-availability server features like Redundant Array of 
Independent Disks (RAID) or hot-swappable power supplies are 
desired.
This manual describes the installation steps for Option 1.
Before installing Nyquist, ensure that:
• Required services are enabled on your network. An example of a 
required service includes TFTP.
• Required multicast IP addresses and ports are known and avail-
able.
• Required IP addresses are known and available.
• Required port numbers are open.
Both the Debian software and the Nyquist software are already 
installed on the System Controller. You only need to supply a product 
license, which will then activate the product and guide you through 
Note: This manual provides the Nyquist E7000 installation process 
when using the Nyquist System Controller (NQ-SYSCTRL). If you are 
using your own server, refer to the Nyquist E7000 Server Installation 
and Setup Guide.
=====
2
several setup wizards. (See "System Controller Setup Assistant” on 
page 7.)
If you are updating an existing Nyquist system, read "Best Practices” 
on page 49 and then refer to the update procedure in the System 
Administrator Manual.
1.1
Understanding System Requirements
The E7000 web-based UI requires a secure Hypertext Transfer Proto-
col Secure (https) type network connection to the E7000 system 
server. Users can log in to the E7000 system using the Google 
Chrome web browser from a computer or tablet running either a 
Windows 8.1 (or later) or a Mac OS X 10.12.x (or later) operating 
system (OS). The UI can also be accessed via a Chrome browser 
enabled Android-based tablet or mobile device. To access the server, 
type your server’s IP address (for example, 10.10.20.12).
1.1.1
Whitelisted Web Addresses
E7000 requires access to specific Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), 
commonly referred to as web addresses. Access to many of these 
web addresses is required during installation; access to other web 
addresses, such as the address for the Network Time Server (NTS) are 
required during runtime. The Information Technology (IT) depart-
ment for the site must whitelist the web addresses so that they can 
be easily accessed as needed.
The following table lists the URLs that must be whitelisted.
Table 1-1, Whitelisted Web Sites
URL
Description
http://hostedactivation.com (specifically, 
http://hostedactivation.com/bogen)
Required for E7000 License support
http://downloads.digium.com
Required for downloads from Digium 
Phone Module for Asterisk (DPMA)
http://downloads.asterisk.org/ (specifically, 
http://downloads.asterisk.org/pub/
telephony/sounds/releases)
Required for sounds download
http://www.pjsip.org/
Required for PJSIP download
http://ftp.us.debian.org (specifically: http://
ftp.us.debian.org/debian/)
Required during Linux package installation
=====
3
URLs that are entered on the E7000 System Parameters page are 
used during runtime and include the URLs for the NTS, the Session 
Traversal Utilities for (Network Address Translation (NAT) (STUN) 
server, and the Traversal Using Relays around NAT (TURN) server.
The default URLs for the STUN and TURN servers are not set. The 
default URL for NTS is pool.ntp.org.
1.1.2
Network Application Services
Required  application services will be installed automatically on the 
E7000 system server as part of the E7000 installation. All other net-
work services must be already present or installed manually on the 
associated network. The following table lists the services and their 
locations:
http://security.debian.org (specifically: 
http://security.debian.org/)
Required during Linux package installation
stun01.sipphone.com
Required for STUN based IP address 
resolution (This is used by the E7000 Web 
UI and should be enabled on the computer 
that runs the web UI.)
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/
Serves unprocessed versions of files stored 
in the GitHub repositories.
http://2431612419.airable.io
https://2431612419.airable.io
airable URL
http://api.sound-machine.com
https://api.sound-machine.com
SoundMachine URL
http://api.bogenedu.com/api/customers
Required for E7000 Warranty Support
Table 1-1, Whitelisted Web Sites (Continued)
URL
Description
=====
4
Table 1-2,  Network Application Services
Service
Description
Required
Location
Apache
Used as the web server to drive the 
E7000 web interface.
Mandatory
E7000
DHCP
Supplies dynamic IP addresses to the 
E7000 system server and associated 
devices. (DHCP is the acronym for 
Dynamic Host Configuration 
Protocol.) It also supplies the Trivial 
File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server IP 
address or host name to devices on 
the network via option_66.
Optional
Network
DNS
Resolves host names to IP addresses. 
DNS is an acronym for Domain 
Name System, a hierarchical naming 
system for computers, servers, or 
other resources connected to either 
the Internet or to a private network. 
Optional
Network
ICE
STUN
TURN
Resolves IP addresses behind 
Network Address Translation (NAT)/
firewall.
- Interactive Connectivity 
Establishment
- Session Traversal Utilities for NAT
- Traversal Using Relays around NAT
Optional
E7000
Network
NTP
Provides date/time synchronization 
for the E7000 system server and the 
associated devices (IP Phones, 
appliances). (NTP is an acronym for 
Network Time Protocol.)
Mandatory
Network
=====
5
SNMP
Provides the E7000 Linux server 
statistics via Simple Network 
Management Protocol (SNMP) v1 
through Port 161.
Optional
E7000
TFTP
TFTP is used by IP phone and E7000 
device provisioning. A TFTP server 
runs on the E7000 system server on 
port 69 (the standard TFTP port #).
Device provisioning files are stored 
on the E7000 system server in 
directory: /srv/tftp.
This is the only directory exposed by 
the TFTP server.
Mandatory
E7000
Table 1-2,  Network Application Services (Continued)
Service
Description
Required
Location
=====

2 System Controller 
Setup Assistant
7
System Controller Setup Assistant
After you have attached network cables to the System Controller, you 
can launch the Setup Assistant, a series of wizards that takes you step 
by step through the configuration of the most important Nyquist set-
tings, via a web browser. If you are using Port A to access the System 
Controller, type http://192.168.1.10/setup/welcome in the web 
browser. If you are using a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol 
(DHCP) address via Port B, type http://<ip-address)/setup/wel-
come where <ip-addresss> is replaced by the DHCP server provided 
Internet Protocol (IP) address.  
When you select the Continue button on the initial Welcome screen, 
the Network Wizard launches. The Network Wizard allows you to 
configure the IP address setting on Ethernet ports A and B.
The System Controller has two network ports. Port A is always used 
by the Nyquist server to communicate with Nyquist devices and can 
be used to communicate with Internet based services. You can use 
Port A or Port B to access the System Controller via the Web UI. Port 
Figure 2-1, Setup Assistant Welcome Screen
=====
8
B is an optional port that, when configured, is always used by the 
Nyquist server to communicate with Internet based services. 
When setting up the network ports, you must indicate if the IP 
address will be provided by a DHCP Server or if a static IP address will 
be used. If you are using a static IP address, you must provide the IP 
Address, Subnet Mask, and Gateway for the port or ports. Through 
the Network Wizard, you also indicate if Port B will be used and 
optionally provide the name of the Domain Name System (DNS), 
which is used to resolve host names to IP addresses.
After completing the information for the Network Wizard, select Save 
and Reset Network Interfaces. Resetting the Network Interfaces will 
take several minutes. A progress bar will appear on the screen.
After the Network Wizard completes, type the IP address of the 
server in the address bar. The next wizard that launches is the License 
Activation Key wizard. This wizard displays the configuration for Port 
A and (if used) Port B. 
Enter your License Activation Key and select Continue. 
The Product Activation screen that appears provides the following 
information about your Nyquist license:
• Version number
• Maximum concurrent call limit
• Maximum number of stations
• Maximum number of zones
• Maximum number of paging queues
• Whether Text-To-Speech or Maps features are enabed
• Expiration dates for software maintenance and for this software 
license
When product activation completes, a customer information form 
appears; fill in the form. After the form is completed, the Dialing 
Length Wizard appears. If you already know how to configure a 
Note: Verify the network setup is correct before continuing. If the 
displayed IP addresses are not correct, go back to the Network 
Wizard and make any required changes before proceeding with 
the License Activation Wizard.
Note: Do not close the browser or the License Activation Key page.
=====
9
System Controller, you can select Expert Setup, which takes you to 
the Login page. The Dialing Length, Station, User, and Timezone 
Wizard views also have an Expert Setup button. The Expert Setup 
button marks all the set up database entries visited so you are not 
redirected back to any of the wizards.
When you login, you can view the product dashboard. You can then 
manually complete system configuration using the Admin Web UI 
(see the Nyquist E7000 System Administrator Manual).
Otherwise, you can continue using the setup wizards to do the fol-
lowing:
• Set the dialing length (number of digits) used by stations in your 
system.
• Create the Admin Web UI station.
• Update the password for the Admin user.
• Set the time zone to be used by your system.
• Specify the Network Time Server.
Once you complete all of the setup wizards, the logon screen 
appears.
Note: If you have not set a new password, you will need to enter 
the default username admin and the default password bogen to 
log into the system. Login credentials are case sensitive.
Note: When updating the password, ensure that you maintain a 
record of the new password in a secure place.
=====

3 Best Practices
11
Best Practices
This section details recommendations and best practices to use when:
• Updating the Nyquist E7000 system server software to a new soft-
ware release
• Updating Nyquist appliance firmware (computer software stored 
on the appliance)
• Using System Backups
3.1
Updating Nyquist Software
New Nyquist server software may include patches to address known 
issues or new releases that provide additional features. The latest 
E7000 server software can be accessed from the secured ES Dealers 
website: 
http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-secure-dealer-resources/
Note: Before configuring or using any Nyquist appliances, you 
must ensure that the appliance firmware is updated to the latest 
release. The latest firmware release can be obtained from the 
secured ES Dealers website: http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-
secure-dealer-resources/
Note: Before beginning the install process, make sure that your 
Nyquist system server can access the required URLs or web sites 
(see "Whitelisted Web Addresses” on page 2 from a Chrome 
browser.
=====
12
When updating to a new Nyquist server software release, use the 
Admin Web UI to perform a system update unless directed by techni-
cal support. Performing a system update ensures that all configura-
tion data, call detail records, recordings, voice mail, and all upload 
announcements, alarms, tones, and songs are retained and are avail-
able after the system software update.
To perform a system update:
Step 1
From the navigation bar, select System Parameters.
Step 2
From the System Parameters page, select System 
Update, locate the System Update file, and then select 
Import.
Perform the server system update process before updating Nyquist 
appliance software.
3.1.1
Assigning Permissions for New Features
After a new software release is installed, permissions for features 
introduced by this new release must be set for the roles that will use 
these features. 
To assign permissions for these new features:
Step 1
On the navigation bar, select Roles.
Step 2
On the Roles page, select the Permissions icon next to 
the role that you want to edit permissions for.
Step 3
On the Edit Permissions page, make desired changes.
Step 4
Select Save.
For more information, refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Administra-
tor Manual.
Note: System backups created by older versions of the server soft-
ware are not compatible with the newer releases and should not be 
used to restore configuration data.
=====
13
3.2
Updating Appliance Firmware
The firmware for all devices used with the E7000 system must be 
compatible with the software installed on the E7000 server, and all 
Nyquist appliances in a given installation should be configured to run 
the same version firmware.
Nyquist application firmware releases can be accessed from the 
secured ES Dealers website: 
http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-secure-dealer-resources/
Firmware can be updated for E7000 stations and Analog Station 
Bridge (ASB) devices through the Admin Web UI or through the 
appliance’s web UI. For information about the appliance’s web UI, 
refer to the device’s configuration manual.
Through the E7000 Admin Web UI, you can upload a firmware file to 
the E7000 system server, download firmware to a station or ASB, view 
a list of stations and ASBs that are linked to a firmware name, set 
default firmware for any stations and bridge devices to be added, and 
delete firmware entries. For information about using the Admin Web 
UI, refer to the Nyquist E7000 System Administrator Manual.
Note: Before configuring or using any Nyquist appliances, you 
must ensure that the appliance firmware is updated to the latest 
release. The latest firmware release can be obtained from the 
secured ES Dealers website: http://www.bogenedu.com/nyquist-
secure-dealer-resources/
