
With the Nyquist Series Gen-2 VoIP Ceiling Speaker, there is no need 
for external amplifiers, traditional intercom wiring, or transformer
taps to manually set or adjust. Connect the speaker via Cat5 to a 
Power-Over-Ethernet (PoE) Switch or PoE Injector, and it is ready
to use. 
The speaker features an integrated 10 watt power amplifier, a CAN 
Bus interface, a MEMS digital microphone for superior talkback
audio, and a Form C SPDT type 2-amp dry contact relay for
controlling/overriding third-party devices like AV sources. 
The speaker also allows DHCP deployment for easy installation.
You can let your Nyquist server automatically discover and
configure your speaker, or you can manually configure it through 
the speaker’s web-based user interface (web UI). The web UI also 
allows easy updating of firmware and setting of parameters for
Digital Signal Processing (DSP). For more information about the web
UI, refer to the Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP Speakers Configuration Manual.
NQ-S1810WT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP

Ceiling Speaker
Installation Manual
=====
NQ-S1810CT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP 
Speaker Layout
The layout of the speakers should be planned before installation begins. 
Layout starts in one corner of the room. The first speaker should be
positioned from each wall spaced a distance approximately equal to the
ceiling height of the room.
The next speaker in Row 1 should be spaced a distance approximately 
equal to twice the height of the ceiling. Each additional speaker in the row 
should use this same spacing. 
Row 2 starts at twice the ceiling height distance from row 1 and twice 
the ceiling height from the wall.  The other speakers in this row are also 
spaced at twice the ceiling height. 
Row 3 is again spaced at twice the ceiling height from the previous row. 
The first speaker starting this row is positioned at one ceiling height
distance from the wall (similar to row 1). 
Continue this pattern of alternating rows until the room is covered. The 
spacing of the speakers can be adjusted so that the speakers are evenly 
spaced in a row and are aesthetically pleasing.
=====
NQ-S1810CT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP 

Mounting Equipment/Accessories
RE84 Recessed Enclosure
The RE84 is an optional back box for ceiling speakers. UL Listed for use 
where ceiling plenum is part of an air handling system, the RE84 also 
includes attachment tabs allowing the enclosure to be supported from 
structures other than the actual ceiling grid.
TB8 Tile Bridge
The TB8 supports the weight of the speaker and recessed enclosure. 
This is also the item to which the speaker mounting screws attach. The 
TB8 is required for each speaker assembly installed.
MR8 Mounting Ring
The MR8 Mounting Ring is a cold-rolled steel unit, which will mount any 
of the Bogen ceiling grilles, for installations where the RE84 is not used.
RE84
Recessed
Enclosure
TB8 Tile Bridge
MR8
Mounting
Ring
Speaker Installation
1. Remove the tile from ceiling and center the TB8 tile bridge on the 
back.  Use the tile bridge to trace out, and then cut an 8-1/2” square hole.

2. If using the optional RE84 Recessed Enclosure, bend up the four  
     (4) horseshoe tabs (Figure 1) on the TB8.

3. Position the TB8 over the hole
    in the tile and push down the
     locator tabs (Figure 2).
4. Using the 4 supplied screws,
    attach the speaker to the TB8
    Tile Bridge using the 4 clips in
    the corners of the opening on
    the TB8 as nuts.
NOTE: Only tighten the screws until
the grille is snug against the tile.
Over tightening will cause screws
to dimple the grille.
5. When applicable, use the plug-
    gable CAN bus connector to
    attach one or more NQ-E7020
    Digital Call Switches to the
    Nyquist VoIP Form C Module
    820-00071-00 as shown in
    Figure 3.
Speaker Installation (cont’d)
6. If the CAN Bus is to be used, ensure CAN_H and CAN_L use (Cat5 
    10/100) twisted pair cable.
7. To connect a third-party device to the dry contact relay output, do 
    one of the following:
a. If the device is looking for a Normally Open contact, connect    
    the device using the NO and COM terminals.
b. If the device is looking for a Normally Closed contact, connect 
    the device using the NC and COM terminals.
NQ-E7020 Digital
Call Switch

Speaker Installation (cont’d)
8. Make the electrical connections
    using Category 5 or higher
    Ethernet cable with an RJ-45
    connector (Figure 4). The power
    is supplied by PoE using an
    802.3af compliant network
    switch or PoE injector.
9. Place the entire assembled
    ceiling tile back into the ceiling
    grid.

Additional Accessories
The Nyquist Gen 2 VoIP Ceiling Speaker can be used with the Nyquist 
Digital Call Switch NQ-E7020. Refer to the Nyquist Digital Call Switch
NQ-E7020 Quick Start Guide.
