
With the Nyquist Series Gen-2 VoIP Wall Baffle Speaker, there is no need 
for external amplifiers, traditional intercom wiring, or transformer taps to 
manually set or adjust. Connect the speaker via Cat5 to a Power-Over-Ethernet (PoE) Switch or PoE Injector, and it is ready to use.
The speaker features an integrated 10 watt power amplifier, a CAN 
Bus interface, a MEMS digital microphone for superior talkback audio,
and a Form C SPDT type 2-amp dry contact relay for controlling/over-
riding third-party devices like AV sources.
The speaker also allows DHCP deployment for easy installation. You can 
let your Nyquist server automatically discover and configure your speaker,
or you can manually configure it through the speaker’s web-based
user interface (web UI). The web UI also allows easy updating of
firmware and setting of parameters for Digital Signal Processing (DSP). 
For more information about the web UI, refer to the Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP 
Speakers Configuration Manual.
NQ-S1810WT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP

Wall Baffle Speaker
Installation Manual
=====
NQ-S1810WT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP
Wall Baffle Speaker
Speaker Layout
The layout of the speakers should be planned prior to installation.
Because wall baffle speakers are designed to project forward, it is best to 
aim them in the same direction as this provides for both greater coverage 
and clarity. You can use the building’s roof pillars or other available supports for mounting the wall baffles.
In some cases, it may be necessary to mount the wall baffles on opposing walls. In these cases, the speakers will project sound in opposing
directions.
Figure 1
HALLWAY - Wall baffle speakers work well with rooms and hallways that 
are 20’ to 60’ wide. Layout starts at one end of the hallway or room. The 
first speaker should be installed 10’ from the end of the hallway or room. 
The next speaker on that wall should be installed 20’ from the first speaker. Each additional speaker should be installed 20’ apart from the previous one. The first speaker on the opposing wall should be installed 20’ 
from the end of the hallway or room, thereby staggering the speakers. 
Each additional speaker should be installed 20’ apart from the previous 
one (see Figure 1).
=====
NQ-S1810WT-G2
Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP
Wall Baffle Speaker
Speaker Layout (cont’d)
ROOMS - In most cases, an environment, such as a classroom,
requires only a single wall baffle speaker to service the entire room. The 
final placement of the speaker within the  room can vary, but common 
area locations such as at the head of the room or near the room entrance 
aretypically chosen (see Figure 2). Based on the speaker position that 
has been selected, you can choose between several mounting options 
(see Figures 3-6).
Figure 2
Step 1
Select the mounting option from Figures 3–6 and use the appropriate 
hardware for gang box mount or wall mount. Bogen provides the screws 
and the washers for mounting on a standard electrical gang box, but 
when mounting directly to a wall or other surface, you must supply the 
appropriate hardware for the specific wall/surface construction type 
(for example, concrete cinder block, metal beams etc.). 
NOTE: Wall baffle speakers should be installed at a height of between 8 and 
16 feet from the floor depending upon need.
Speaker Installation
Figure 3
2X2 Wall Mount
Box Mount
Side 
View

Speaker Installation (cont’d)
Figure 5
Figure 6
Corner Mount
Tilt Mount
Side 
View
Step 2
When applicable, use the pluggable CAN bus connector to attach one 
or more NQ-E7020 Digital Call Switch to the Nyquist VoIP Full Duplex 
Module 820-00071-00 as shown in Figure 7.
NQ-E7020 Digital
Call Switch
Figure 7
Step 3
If the CAN bus is to be used, ensure the CAN_H and CAN_L use (Cat 5 
10/100) twisted pair cable.
Step 4
To connect a third-party device to the dry contact relay output, do one 
of the following:
a. If the device is looking for a Normally Open contact, connect 
    the device using the NO and COM terminals.
b. If the device is looking for a Normally Closed contact, connect 
    the device  using the NC and COM terminals

Speaker Installation (cont’d)
Step 5
Use Category 5 or higher Ethernet
cable to connect the speaker
(Figure 8). The power is supplied 
by PoE using an 802.3af compliant 
network switch or PoE injector.
Figure 8
Figure 9
Step 6
To assemble the Wall Baffle Speaker (Figure 9), first align the two notches 
(A) located at the top of the speaker baffle with the notches (B) at the 
top of the rear housing. Then, rotate the speaker baffle downward until 
the two bottom sections (C & D) snap together.
NOTE: Refer to the Nyquist Gen-
2 VoIP Speakers Configuration 
Manual or the Nyquist System 
Administrator Manual for detailed instructions on how to
configure these speakers.
Using the Reset Button
The Reset button (Figure 10) allows you to either reboot the VoIP speaker or to reset the appliance’s configuration settings to the factory default 
settings. For more information about resetting configuration settings,
refer to the Nyquist Gen-2 VoIP Speakers Configuration Manual.
Figure 10
