CREATIVITY
DESIGN
NYQUIST
E700MCR
QUICK START
GUIDE
BOGEN.COM  | 1.800.999.2809
© Bogen Communications LLC   740-00181 220603
=====
E7000MCR-xx Preassembled Rack-Mounted Paging and Intercom System
The MCR Preassembled Rack Includes:
NYQUIST E700MC |  INTRODUCTION
01
The full-featured Nyquist E7000MCR (or MCR for short) is a preassembled Nyquist E7000 system that offers ES Dealers a 
simplified installation and configuration process. Able to leverage existing facility wiring, 25-Volt speakers and call switches, 
this feature-rich, pre-rack-mounted solution provides a quick and easy migration path for legacy paging and intercom 
systems, while delivering the same powerful feature set found in the core E7000 system. The MCR is also easy to configure 
utilizing the browser-based setup wizard on the laptop PC included with the system. The Nyquist MCR is designed to 
operate as a primarily self-contained system, as it does not impose upon the customer’s network or IT department.
1 NQ-SYSCTRL Nyquist System Controller with 
DHCP Server enabled
1 - 4 NQ-E7030 ASB’s to support
24 / 48 / 72 / 96 port configurations as required
1 NQ-T1100 Admin Phone
1 NQ-E7010 I/O Controller
1 NQ-P0100 Matrix Mixer Pre-Amp
1 Cisco 16-Port Partial PoE Network Switch
(model will vary over time)
1 Dell Windows Laptop PC for system setup and 
administration (model will vary over time)
1 Locking Keyboard/Laptop Drawer
All preassembled in one 42” tall standard 19” rack 
with locking rear door, all required filler panels, 
intra-cabinet network patch cables, wire management, 
and lacing strips for field wiring.
Available Optional Add-Ons:
Automatic Failover (AF S/W License and 2nd 
NQ-SYSCTRL Nyquist System Controller)
Caster Kit
Product Features:
System ships from factory with the latest software and patches, eliminating the need to upgrade the system 
at the time of installation.
Preconfigured rack system: Roll it in, connect the speaker wiring, and finish configuring the system using 
the intuitive setup wizard on the included laptop PC and the system is up and running!
Can run as a complete free-standing system: The self-contained nature of this solution does not impose 
upon the customer’s network or IT department.
A future-proofed solution that protects your investment: Upgradeable and expandable to adapt to the school’s 
changing needs. Also, networkable to inter-connect with other Nyquist systems across the entire district.
To help deliver on our goal of providing a self-contained system, the License Activation Key (LAK) gets 
applied during factory assembly to avoid the need for an Internet connection during installation.
=====
NYQUIST E700MC |  NETWORK WIRING DIAGRAM
02
NQ-T110
NQ-E7010
NQ-P0100
NQ-E7030
(1-4 per system, as needed)
Laptop on
Nyquist DHCP
Network
(172.31.11.X)
NQ-SYSCTRL
Running DHCP (172.31.1.1)
Optional Connection To
Customer Network For Internet Access
16 Port (8 PoE Ports) Network Switch
Logging into the Laptop PC
NOTE: Do not connect the MCR network directly to another network because you will most likely have a DHCP conflict. 
The included Laptop PC is for configuring the MCR system and you must make sure that it is connected to the MCR 
network and that everything in the rack has been powered up to finish configuring the system. Refer to the network wiring 
diagram on page 3. The MCR network is comprised of the Nyquist System Controller and the Network Switch in the rack, 
and has been preconfigured to use the DHCP server in the Nyquist System Controller.  
16 Port (8 PoE Ports) Network Switch
=====
NYQUIST E700MC |  LOGGING INTO THE LAPTOP PC
03
If you want to connect the MCR system to the customer’s network (for say Internet access or remote administration), that is 
done by connecting the customer’s network to port “B” of the System Controller.
To log into the laptop PC, use Username “bogen” with the Password “bogen001” (using zeros not the letter “o”). When the 
MCR system was being assembled at the factory, we installed the SSL certificate onto the laptop PC so that you don’t have 
to. You can launch the Edge browser and go to System Controller’s IP address of 172.31.1.1 and you will be presented with 
the Dialing Length Wizard, and you will then need to complete the setup wizards and then log into the system and continue 
with the system configuration (e.g., adding stations, zones, etc.).
For more information on how to properly configure a system refer to the Nyquist E7000 eLearning course.
Things you don’t need to worry about with the MCR is that the License Activation Key (LAK) and Customer Information has 
already been populated in the system to save you time. We recommend that you go to the Product License page in System 
Parameters and take note your LAK for future reference/use.
Network Port “A” for
MCR Network Only
Network Port “B” for Connection
to Customer’s Network