NYQUIST VoIP Wall Baffle Speaker
NQ-S1810WT Installation
Speaker Layout
The layout of the speakers should be planned 
prior to installation. Because wall baffle 
speakers are designed to project forward, it is best to aim them in the 
same direction as this provides for 
both greater coverage and clarity. You can use the building’s 
roof pillars or other available supports for mounting the wall 
baffles.
In some cases, it may be necessary to mount the wall baffles 
on opposing walls. In these cases, the speakers will project 
sound in opposing directions.
HALLWAY - Wall baffle speakers work well with rooms and hallways that are 20’ to 60’ wide. Layout starts at one end of the 
hallway or room. The first speaker should be installed 10’ from 
the end of the hallway or room.  The next speaker on that wall 
should be installed 20’ from the first speaker. Each additional 
speaker should be installed 20’ apart from the previous one.
The first speaker on the opposing wall should be installed 20’ 
from the end of the hallway or room, thereby staggering the 
speakers. Each additional speaker should be installed 20’ apart 
from the previous one (see Figure 1).
ROOMS - In most cases, an environment, such as a classroom, 
requires only a single wall baffle speaker to service the entire room. The final 
placement of the speaker within the  
room can vary, but common area locations such as at the head of the room 
or near the room entrance are typically 
chosen (see Figure 2).
Based on the speaker position that 
has been selected, you can choose between several mounting 
options (see Figures 3-6).
Publication Number 740-00011C 1811

=====
NYQUIST VoIP Wall Baffle Speaker
NQ-S1810WT
Speaker Installation
Step 1 - Select the mounting option from Figures 3–6 and use the appropriate hardware for gang box mount 
or wall mount. Bogen provides the screws and the washers for mounting on a standard electrical gang box, 
but when mounting directly to a wall or other surface, you must supply the appropriate hardware for the specific wall/surface construction type (for example, concrete cinder block, metal beams etc.). 
NOTE: Wall baffle speakers should be installed at a height of between 8 and 16 feet from the floor depending 
upon need.
Figure 3
2X2 Wall Mount
Side 
View
Box Mount
Figure 4
Side 
View
Corner Mount
Tilted Mount
Figure 5
Figure 6

Speaker Connection
Step 2 - Use Category 5 or higher Ethernet cable to 
connect the speaker (Figure 7).
The power is supplied by PoE using an 802.3af compliant network switch or PoE injector.
Speaker Assembly
Step 3 - To assemble the Wall Baffle Speaker (Figure 
8), first align the two notches (A) located at the top 
of the speaker baffle with the notches (B) at the top 
of the rear housing. Then, rotate the speaker baffle 
downward (Figure 9) until the two bottom sections 
(C & D) snap together.
NOTE: Refer to the Nyquist “VoIP Speakers Configuration Manual” or the “Nyquist System Administrator 
Manual” for detailed instructions on how to configure 
these speakers.
Additional Accessories
The Nyquist VoIP Wall Baffle Speaker can be used 
with the Nyquist Digital Call Switch NQ-E7020. Refer 
to the Nyquist Digital Call Switch NQ-E7020 Quick 
Start Guide.
